Alhamdulillah.
My dear brothers and sisters, it is an
absolute pleasure and honor to be
amongst you uh again today.
Alhamdulillah, I'm finally back home in
Calgary. So, I apologize uh we're
starting a bit late, but in order to
accommodate uh forat
um we started a little bit late, but
it's still going to be a jam-packed
session uh with
benefit. But firstly, you know, let us
start off by remembering our brothers
and sisters uh in Turkey and in Syria
and in other parts of the world that are
going through hardship and calamity. So,
for those of you that may not be aware,
there was an absolute catastrophic
uh earthquake um earlier this morning,
late last night, uh in Turkey and in
Syria. And when I had last checked the
numbers, the numbers were uh above 2,000
people had passed away. And you know,
thousands in the tens of them are are
displaced. May Allah subhana wa ta'ala
have mercy upon their deceased and make
things easy uh for the
living. You know these sorts of events
they happen as reminders uh for us that
number one you know death can happen at
any time but more specifically these
calamities remind us of the of Allah
subhana wa ta'ala and that is why with
regards to prophetic advice what we
should be doing is increasing in our
during these times Allahhana wa tala he
tells us
inah that Allahhana will not punish the
companions as long as the prophet
sallallahu alaihi wasallam is among them
and or not just the companions the
Quraysh uh uh in general um and he will
not punish the people after them as long
as they're making aar so the fact that
Allahhana has given us life we should
continuously make aar number two is the
prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam he
says avoid calamities by giving so this
is an ideal opportunity that helping our
brothers and sisters uh in Turkey and in
Syria and in other parts of the world
where they are struggling to give saddak
to help those that are in need. Um
obviously a lot of these are going to be
zakat eligible projects. So you can give
your zakat to them as well. Find a
charity uh that you trust and that is
doing work on the ground and uh please
do help them out and that will be a
means of not only helping your brothers
and sisters in their time of need but
also a means of protecting yourselves.
And then last but not least, the
importance of making dua for them that
Allahh make things easy for them and
grants them peace and solace and
restores uh peace after calamity and
that Allah subhana ta protects us and
makes things easy for us and uh averts
any trials from our way through the good
deeds uh that we do. So these are just
three important points I wanted to begin
with uh just as a reminder that I know a
lot of us may live in the west very
comfortable that doesn't mean that we
don't hurt and we don't feel pain when
the um feels pain and it's very subhan
Allah uh amazing how the of Allah works
uh with regards to the verses that we're
going to be covering today that
perfectly uh tie in to this. Now before
I forget I do have an important
announcement to make. Next week's class
will not be happening on Monday. Next
week's class will not be happening on
Monday. So, meaning next week on
February the 13th, there will be no
class. I'm actually uh traveling to
Australia and subhan Allah, it's such a
long journey that I'm leaving on Monday
and arriving on Wednesday. So, it's uh a
weird schedule like that. Subhan Allah.
Uh so what we are going to be doing is
in March 6th and 7th we'll have classes
backtoback. So on March 6th you will
have a class and on March 7th you will
have a class. This is just a special
accommodation we're making uh due to the
travel.
Um thank you so much. So that's just an
important announcement. So don't show up
next week thinking that there's class
next week meaning February 13th thinking
that there's class and then no one's
here or if it's just a group of
students. you know, by all means, it'd
be great for all of you to have some
sort of like revision session together
and things that you learned and
discussion together. By all means, feel
free to coordinate something like that.
But in terms of myself, there will be no
class uh next week and it'll be made up
in March 6th and
7th. May Allah make it easy. So now,
let's get the PowerPoint up. And I'm so
happy to be home. I can't tell you how
happy I am to be home. one obviously to
see my family and to be with my
community but also I get to use my
desktop which
means by the will of Allah there will be
no technological hiccups
inshallah so let's do this
um now start slideshow from current
slide. Okay. So we are on verse number
27. Verse number 27 where
after Allahhana says
what's that Allahhana he says in this
verse and recite oh Muhammad sallallahu
alaihi wasallam what has been revealed
to you of the book of your lord. There
is no change of his words and never will
you find in other than him a refuge.
Okay. So now this is a command from
Allah subhana wa ta'ala to recite the
book oftent times and we started with
this discussion as well when we began
this series that we focus on
understanding the Quran and implementing
the Quran. And here we are commanded to
recite the Quran. So all of these three
actions have virtues to them. And the
prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam is
commanded to recite it out loud. So the
prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam would
recite it to the other companions and
that is how it was documented. So it's
very important to understand how the
preservation of the Quran took place.
The Quran would come down and there were
certain scribes the prophet sallallahu
alaihi wasallam had who would write down
the Quran and these were a few of them
because reading and writing was not very
common at that time. So a few of the
companions would write down the Quran
and a lot of them would memorize the
Quran. A lot of them would memorize the
Quran. So there's a strong oral
tradition of the Quran as well as a
written tradition of the Quran. And to
the best of my knowledge, we actually
have the Musaf of Aman or parts of it at
least uh available in our day and age.
They're available uh across various
museums. I want to say in London and in
Turkey, but I also know that the Saudi
cultural attache travels around with
them across the globe. So they did come
to Canada at one point and I remember as
a young child going to this exhibition
that was held by the Saudi cultural
attache uh that had um some of the
parchments and uh the pages from the
musf
of whose time. So here the prophet
sallallahu alaihi wasallam is commanded
to recite to the Quran. Now this command
shows an obligation for the prophet
sallallahu alaihi wasallam but it also
shows an obligation for us that at some
point in our lives if we have the
ability to we have to recite the Quran
there cannot be a believer that has not
read the Quran part of it at least once
in his life like you can't fully be a
believer without that if you had the
opportunity now why do I give this
disclaimer because obviously we see
throughout the certain companions that
accepted Islam on the day of the battle
and in the battle they died. Now
obviously they did not have an
opportunity to recite to the Quran and
do other good deeds. They are the
exception to the rule. But those of us
that are not the exception and we are
the general case. It is a command upon
us to recite to the Quran part of it at
least once in our lives. And the more we
want to get closer to Allah subhana wa
ta'ala then the more Quran we should
recite. One of the lessons that we learn
very early on and I want us to try to
internalize this. So I'll go a bit
slower over here. You know we often talk
about crisis of faith. When does a
crisis of faith take place and what are
signs of it? And my dear brothers and
sisters, may Allah grant us all I mean
the crisis of faith begins the day we do
not recite Quran. If we're not reciting
Quran every day, a crisis of faith has
already begun and we're not even
realizing it. Like that is the value of
the Quran. So we have to make an effort
even if just a little bit a few verses
half a page a page whatever you're
capable of doing you should be reciting
the
Quran he mentions that the individual
that does not finish the Quran every 40
days or sorry the individual that
finishes the Quran meaning completely
recites the Quran from beginning to end
in 40 days this is the recitation of the
lazy people the recitation
of the lazy people. And we see our
predecessors are trying to complete the
Quran approximately every 3 days, every
7 days, every 10 days. In the month of
Ramadan, some of them are doing it every
day. Right? So those are the standards
we should be striving
for with the words of our Lord. The most
precious words that we will ever come
across. Now why does Allahh go on to
say that there is no exchange for his
words. There is no changing his words.
One we can take this in a general sense
which is whatever Allah subhana wa
ta'ala has sent down Allah subhana wa
ta'ala will protect. Inah in surah
number 15 Allah subhana wa ta'ala he
tells
us that we are the ones that have
revealed this reminder meaning the Quran
and we are the ones that shall protect
it meaning that the Quran shall be
protected from any form of distortion or
misplacing of words or any omission or
deletion or addition all of that the
Quran will be protected from not by us
but by Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala and
this is something unique given to the um
of Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
that was not given to the previous
nations that was not given to the
previous nations the specific context of
this is that during the time of the
prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam when
he would recite to the Quran people
would cover their ears they would walk
away they would mock and call names to
the prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam
and some of them would also want another
Quran that would be revealed in
accordance to their desires in
accordance to their desire. So there are
certain things that they didn't like
that were haram. They wanted them to be
halal, right? So they wish that the
words of Allah subhana wa ta'ala would
be changed. And here Allahhana is saying
that the words of Allah will never be
changed. Whatever Allah has said is
final and you will never find any refuge
with other than him. And this is
ultimate refuge. Now, obviously, you
know, you're running away from a robber
or from someone that's trying to attack
you. The police can obviously help you,
right? Or someone stronger can obviously
help you. Or you can hide in a place and
that place will give you some sort of
protection. But that is only a limited
amount of protection. How about absolute
protection? What does that actually
mean? Meaning from the co of Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala, the co meaning the
universe. And then also from spiritual
and afterlife punishment meaning that
the pain that you feel internally when
you have that void of Allah subhana wa
ta'ala who's going to protect you from
that there's nothing physical that can
protect you from that there's nothing in
this world that can grant you protection
from that when you're in your grave. Who
can protect you? Who can delay your
death? No one can. When it comes to the
hereafter, who can help you cross theat?
No one can. other than Allah subhana wa
ta'ala. Who will save you from the
hellfire? No one other than Allah
subhana wa ta'ala. And this is why we go
back to that dua for those of you that
remember that the prophet sallallahu
alaihi wasallam he used to
say, "Oh Allah, I seek refuge in your
pleasure from your
wrath and in your pardoning from your
punishment." And in your pardoning from
your punishment.
mink and I seek refuge in you from you
meaning from I I seek refuge in Allah
subhana wa ta'ala in um in his kindness
and his mercy in his generosity and in
Allah subhana wa ta'ala uh as a whole
from anything that may cause me harm
meaning from the anger of Allah subhana
wa t'ala and his punishment and his
wrath so these are the forms of refuge
that uh we take with Allahhana wa ta'ala
as we are taught by the prophet Muhammad
So you will never have absolute
protection from anyone or anything
except with Allah subhanaa tala. Now
back to this point about the right could
the people of Turkey and of Syria have
done anything to protect themselves? No.
This was the of Allah subhana wa t'ala.
And often times we contemplate you know
why is this happening to those people?
Are they not righteous people? Well, my
dear brothers and sisters, here's one
side that we can possibly derive from.
There are righteous people whom
Allahhana tala wanted to bring them back
to him. So he gave them this death at a
time where they are doing a good deed or
they had just completed a good deed. So
they had and Allahhana wa ta brought
them back in a state of righteousness.
There are other people that were
oppressive and tyrants and those people
Allah subhana wa ta'ala wanted to remove
them from the earth and wanted to give
them their the fruits of their labor. So
he let them die upon sin or shortly
thereafter uh from a sin without Toba so
that justice can be served to them as
well because Allahhana knew that these
people would never repent in his
infinite knowledge and perhaps would
even make things worse for the
believers. So Allahh took those people
away as well. So from the of Allah there
is no refuge except with Allah subhana
wa ta'ala. When the sun rises from the
west who can change anything about that
no one can. When the jal comes out who
can protect us from the no one can
except by Allah by the will of Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala. So these are
important lessons to derive over here.
Now we get to the second theme which is
the trial of wealth. But the story
actually doesn't start till a few verses
later. So the first story has come to an
end but the second story doesn't
actually begin. Now we're going into a
transition in terms of what is happening
in the life of the prophet sallallahu
alaihi wasallam. So now Allah subhana wa
ta'ala commands the prophet sallallahu
alaihi wasallam
Allah subhana wa ta'ala says, "And keep
yourself patient by being with those who
call upon their Lord in the morning and
the evening, seeking his countenance.
And let not your eyes pass beyond them,
desiring adornments of the worldly life,
and do not obey one whose heart we have
made heedless of our remembrance, and
who follows his desire, and whose affair
is ever in neglect. Now, this verse has
a
specific reason of revelation. So
there's a specific reason of revelation
for this verse that has been mentioned
in the books of and that is that one of
the chiefs of Quraysh by the name of
came to the prophet sallall.aii
Wasam and the prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasallam was in the company of the poor
companions specifically was Salman
ale and he was wearing woolen clothing
and he had a turban that was drenched
with sweat and you can imagine because
it's so hot and he's wearing woolen
clothing that he is persspiring
profusely and when you persspire
profusely what is going to happen an
order is going to emit. So he tells the
prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam that
we the Quraysh are willing to accept
Islam but we can't accept Islam if these
are the people you're going to surround
yourselves with these poor people like
Salman al Farci
and and
um
and these are some of the companions
that are mentioned in in the kir uh that
they're surrounding the prophet
sallallahu alaihi wasallam that we're
not going to accept Islam if these are
who you are going to surround yourself
with like do you not smell that
repugnant odor that these people are
giving off? So he came across as you
know very arrogant very proud you know
thinking very high of himself and here
the prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam
you can imagine the allure that if the
Qur accept Islam all of their problems
are going to go away all of their
problems are going to go away they can
stay in Makkah and you know they're not
going to have any more persecution no
one's going to be killed and the prophet
sallallahu alaihi wasallam is
potentially thinking of all of these
things and maybe you know what if I
abandon these people, I can have ease
and comfort thereafter. But here Allah
subhana wa ta'ala commands
him that control yourself, refrain
yourself, restrain yourself with those
people that call upon your lord in the
morning and the evening. And this shows
us that even the prophet sallallahu
alaihi wasallam himself is commanded to
stay in the company of the righteous. So
if that is the case of the prophet
sallallahu alaihi wasallam how about us
even more so we need to be in the
company of the righteous. So those
people that we frequently see in the
masid that are there for all all of
salas they are there constantly reciting
Quran they're constantly making often
they are the elders in our community
these are the people whose company we
want to keep when scholars come to visit
us if there's a scholar in our community
we want to keep the company of that
scholar the person that will remind us
of Allah subhanana wa ta'ala and are
constantly remembering Allah subhanahu
wa'ta'ala so this shows us that Even
righteous people need good
companionship. Everyone is in need of
good companionship. So everyone should
be striving to get that. Now how does
Allah subhana wa ta define this
righteousness? They are the ones that
call Allahhana tala in the morning and
the evening. So before salah was
legislated as five salas per day. The
believers were praying in the morning
and the evening. For us from our
perspective we can say that this is
making yourar in the morning and the
evening. So regularly make your
and this will make you from the
righteous that they only seek the face
of Allah. This is a synonym for
sincerity. Meaning that whatever they do
they live a sincere life. They live a
sincere life. So everything they strive
for sincerity. And this is something
that's very very difficult. Subhan
Allah. that sometimes you you you re you
uh seek fame, sometimes you seek riches,
sometimes you seek recognition,
sometimes you seek even you know
notoriety with being in the company of
the of the rich and the famous but here
you do things for the sake of Allah and
those are the people whose company you
want to be
in and don't let your eyes go beyond
them and subhan Allah it's amazing how
Allah subhana wa ta'ala gives this
advice to the prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasallam In the sense that is this not
similar to the incident of is this not
similar to the incident of where you
have
Abdullahb whom the prophet sallallahu
alaihi wasallam turned away from while
he wanted to accept Islam while the
others from Quraysh they were not really
interested in accepting Islam that the
prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam
chased them and this shows us that even
the prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam
he had human interactions that Allah
subhana wa ta'ala would correct. He had
human interactions that the Allah
subhana wa ta'ala would correct. And how
beautiful that is that in his lifetime
Allah subhana wa ta'ala corrected his
human interactions so that he could fix
them and he by example would end up
teaching us. And this shows that
oftentimes, subhan Allah, as we progress
in life, we want to be with those people
that have power, that have clout, that
are rich, that are in, you know, other
circles. But at the end of the day, can
they benefit your dean and your we
always have to ask ourselves that
question. Can they benefit our dean and
our So only stay in their company to the
degree that they can benefit you in a
worldly perspective. And beyond that
keep your distance and for the rest of
your time be in the company of those
whom remember Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
whom remember Allah subhana wa ta'ala
and I want to emphasize a couple of
points over here number one in the sun
the prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam
tells us that you are only given victory
due to the poor and their duas sorry
your duas are only answered and given
victory due to you keeping the company
of the poor and the poor being amongst
you. So we should actively seek out the
poor and the righteous and to be in
their company as they are a source of
victory and a source of our duas being
answered. And number two, one of the
duas of the prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasallam and you find multiple versions
of the ending. The prophet sallallahu
alaihi wasallam he used to
say that oh Allah I ask you for the ti
to do good deeds and I ask you for the
to abstain from that which is evil and
vice and I ask you for the love of poor
people meaning that make me love poor
people and allow the poor people to love
me, allow the poor people to love me
because that is a means of the dua being
answered and us being granted victory.
And this is an interesting you know one
of the um if you pay attention to the
duas that are made in particularly in
the in the at the conclusion of this um
you know the prophetam used to say uh
that that you forgive me and have mercy
upon me and then I'm not sure if this
attributed to the prophetam but I often
hear the imams of the haram make this
dua as
well that If you have decreed a trial
for me, then bring me back to you
without being tried. Bring me back to
you without being tried. And this is the
dua of the prophet wasallam. If any of
the students want look up this dua and
share it in the in the chat box I
believe this is in the I believe this is
in
the so now that is the virtues of the
poor and why you should be in the
company of the poor but particularly the
poor righteous the poor righteous and
you'll find that there will be more poor
righteous people than there are rich
righteous people because naturally rich
means means luxury and luxury takes away
uh and luxury brings about comfort and
comfort brings about uh heedlessness
from Allah subhana wa ta'ala. May Allah
protect us from that. And this is what
Allahhana tala specifically
mentions that do not obey the one whom
whose heart we made heedless from our
remembrance. whom whose heart we made
heedless from our remembrance. So again
the righteous will be regularly making
vikar whereas the unrighteous they will
forget the vikar of Allah subhana wa
ta'ala and this is on top of their other
religious obligations like obviously
they have to perform their salah first
they have to give their zak they have to
fast Ramadan but beyond that the
righteous will be making and the
heedless a sign of heedlessness is to
not make and obviously there's layers to
this so you have the the vikar that you
make after salah that everyone should
strive for subhan allah alhamdulillah
allah Akbar and then you have thear of
the morning and the evening. Then you
have thear with regards to particular
incidents like when you're putting your
clothes on like when you're eating those
type of but then you also have the
generalar and this is something that we
need to focus on as well that in your
free time just sitting and saying subhan
allah and saying alhamdulillah and
saying and
saying right these are that we should be
making just in general as well and this
is a sign of righteousness and also a
protection of heed from heatlessness. A
protection from heedlessness. Now what
happens when you are heedless? Then you
start to follow your
desires. Now what is the harm in
following your desires? Well, Allahhana
created us with carnal instincts. So the
desire for intimacy, the the the desire
for for drinking and eating, the desire
for sleeping, all of these things are a
part of the desires that we have and
Allah subhana wa ta allowed halal
avenues for them through which we can
pursue within limits of course. But the
heart that is heatless will not care
about the halal and the haram and will
not care about the limits and will not
care about the limits. So they become
hedonistic meaning that all they live
for is the fulfillment of their desires.
And then Allahh goes on to tell us over
here and the individual that becomes
hedonistic and all they do is follow
their desires. Then you know their their
whole life is destroyed. Their life will
have no meaning. They will be filled
with emptiness. They will do evil and
lewd deeds and know may Allahhana tala
protect us from that. But that is what
they're going to die upon as well. But
that is what they're going to die upon
as well. So to go through the notes over
here, the prophet sallall alaihi
wasallam wanted quresh to become Muslim
so badly. So when Quresh would give him
offers of the dunya to get him to
compromise, Allah revealed this ayah. We
mentioned that specifically if someone
placed a condition on their iman, then
their of our dean are more important
than
ibadat. If a person cannot give up a sin
yet, then it is okay for them to still
accept Islam. But it would be a problem
if a person refused to sit with certain
people because of their social status.
So now the prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasallam is being taught and over here.
So that's what we're trying to point out
that you have to do your personal but
just because you're doing your personal
doesn't mean that you abandon your you
always have to strive for and that is
why the prophetam is being taught here
by Allah subhana wa ta'ala and that is
to love the poor and to be in their
company of the righteous and that is
what you strive for and that is why we
have to pay attention
to after our personal after our
personal. Now if a person cannot give up
a sin obviously they can still accept
Islam. So you can think of any sin
besides obviously that a person is
committing that shouldn't prevent them
from accepting Islam. So a sister can't
wear hijab or doesn't wear hijab or
someone's addicted to alcohol or to
drugs or they smoke or any of those
things. We encourage these people to
accept Islam still but know the rulings
on those things and try to change those
things as well. try to change those
things as well. And it is a very poor
reflection upon people if they only
choose to sit with the elite of society.
In our day and age, you know, it's
something praiseworthy. But here we're
taught that it is praiseworthy to sit
with the poor and the righteous and in
fact with the rich and the elite. Only
sit with them if they're righteous or
sit with them if there's a need. And
then after that need is completed then
you move on. Then you move on.
Now what does Allahhana wa ta go on to
say over
here and Allahh goes on to say and say
the truth is from your lord so whoever
wills let him believe and Whoever wills,
let him disbelieve. Indeed, we have
prepared for the wrongdoers a fire whose
walls will surround them. And if they
call for relief, they will be relieved
with water like murky oil which scolds
their faces. Wretched is the drink and
evil is the resting place. So now Allah
subhana t goes on to say and again
commanding the
prophetam that this truth is not
something that is with me is not
something that is with you it comes from
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala it comes from
Allah subhana wa ta'ala meaning from the
ultimate source of knowledge Allah
subhanana wa ta'ala is al himself so the
truth emanates and comes from al hak
meaning Allah subhanahu wa'ta'ala so
don't accept Islam because it's coming
from me except Islam because it's coming
from Allah subhana wa ta'ala. Some of
the mufas said that this ayah is
directly related to the previous ayah
where had come and told the prophet that
the Qur will accept Islam but leave the
poor people. So here this is a response
to that that accept Islam because it is
the truth from your lord and not because
of some status or prestige that you're
hoping to attain from it. Right? We
follow the truth. And this is subhan
Allah such an important concept that as
believers we are seekers of the truth.
We are pursuers of the truth. We are
establishers of the truth. We stand up
for the truth and may Allah subhana wa
ta'ala allow us to die upon the truth.
So everything revolves around truth for
us. So particularly you know uh going on
a quick side tangent in a world of
disinformation and misinformation we
always have to verify our information
and then after it is verified that is
what we act upon and that is what we
share. So it is the truth that we strive
for and that is something to always keep
in mind that may Allah subhana wa ta'ala
grant us the to constantly seek the
truth and pursue the truth. Number two,
for non-Muslims, it is imperative that
we have dialogues with them with regards
to the truth. That are they sincere in
pursuing the truth? And as long as they
are sincere in pursuing the truth,
Allahh will guide them. But if there's
no sincerity in the pursuit of truth,
then the worst is feared. Then the worst
is feared. Now here with regards to
Allahhana makes it clear. Now look, the
truth has been conveyed to you. If you
want to accept it, accept Islam and
belief. But if you choose disbelief,
know that there are consequences to it.
And this is something that's so
important because everyone wants freedom
of choice, but no one wants the
consequences that come with it, right?
Everyone wants freedom of choice, but no
one wants the consequences of it. So you
want the right to to to choose to pray
or not to pray. You want the right to to
choose to wear hijab or or not wear
hijab. You want the right to choose, you
know, to perform Hajj or not perform
Hajj. Allah subhanaa tala has given you
that choice and you can choose whichever
one you like. But no, all of your
choices have consequences and that is
the illusion of freedom that you can
make a choice and it will be free of
consequences. Subhan Allah. So here
Allah subhana t says that whoever wishes
to believe, let them believe. But
whoever chooses to
disbelieve that if they choose to
disbelieve then we have prepared for the
oppressors an
allencompassing fire an all-encompassing
fire that will surround them that will
surround them. Now let's focus on this.
So eman over here and we'll explain this
in the next ayah is to take the shahada
so that the roots are are grounded in
your heart and that is to build your ean
and to do those good deeds that will
build your eman to do those good deeds
to build your ean and from this verse we
also see that as eman enters your heart
the more eman you pursue and follow the
more your ean will grow the more you
ignore your eman then the more
opportunity kufur has to grow the more
opportunity kufur has to grow. So now if
you follow the style of kufur meaning
you reject the truth then in that
situation you have become an oppressor.
You know what the truth is yet you're
choosing not to follow it. You know that
the time for fud has come in but you are
choosing not to pray. This is a form of
oppression. Now magnify that you know
that Islam is the truth but you're
choosing not to accept it. Is this not
in a form of oppression? This is a form
of oppression in two ways. Number one,
Allahhana provides you with everything,
gives you life, gives you guidance,
tells you what to do and you do not do
it. This is this is we are meant to be
servants of Allahhana tala on this
earth. A second form of is against our
own selves. That look at what happens to
the state of the heart every time it
rejects truth. Every time it rejects
guidance from Allah subhana wa ta'ala,
blackness is placed on the heart. And
this makes life so much more difficult.
Makes so much more difficult. And what
that leads to is that as you have this
burning rage of darkness inside of you,
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala places you in
physical fire at that time that you will
be surrounded with that you will be
surrounded with.
Now that this is a fire that they will
be surrounded by. Allah subhana wa ta
gets very very graphic over here in a
hadith we find that these walls that
Allahh surrounds people with in the
hellfire it's almost like a prison it's
almost like a prison and each wall is as
thick as the distance of 40 years each
wall is as thick as the distance of 40
years now you can imagine fire all
around you coming close to your face
that it burns off your Subhan Allah. And
obviously when it's hot to that degree
and the fire of of hell is, you know, 69
to 70 times more hotter than the fire of
this world, you'll want
water. something that will cool us down.
So they will be seeking help and they
will be calling
out. But just like they rejected the
signs of Allah subhana wa ta'ala, just
like they neglected the commands of
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala, now too they
will be denied their requests. So when
they seek help at that time they will be
provided with
water meaning it is thick like an oil
and other scholars of said it is blood
and pus that it is blood and
pus it will burn your faces and
completely disseminate and disintegrate
your faces. Subhan Allah. that something
like a steam so hot that as soon as it
comes to you it just shrivels up your
face and you know destroys it but as we
know in the hellfire things are
regenerated to be destroyed again. So
you drink the first time. May Allah
subhanaa tala protect us from this
thinking that you will gra get some sort
of coolness but it burns your face but
you are not allowed to learn your
lesson. So you let think let me drink
again and again it burns your face and
you can perpetually keep doing this.
Subhan Allah. And Allah subhana wa ta
protects
us. What an evil drink that is. Subhan
Allah. Allah is telling us it is an evil
drink. And then what an evil resting
place. Meaning that just like you
committed haram in this world, Allah
subhana wa ta gives you the punishment
of those harams in the hereafter where
you didn't have a pure source of
drinking from in this life. Meaning the
sources of knowledge, your sources of
information, then Allah subhana wa ta
gives you physical impure drinks in the
hereafter. And just like you are not
allowed to live in peace internally in
this life, then you will not be allowed
to live in peace physically in the
hereafter. May Allah subhana wa ta'ala
protect us. Amen. So now notes as
Muslims, we must speak the truth
wherever we are and we must say it
nicely with good character. You can
change your tone but you cannot change
the words because the truth is the same.
These words were used for the people who
tried to compromise dean at a societal
level. So the truth is the truth
regardless of where it comes from. The
truth is the truth regardless of where
it comes from. We can't change the truth
but we can change the way that we convey
it. And that is what we should pay
attention to. The source of truth is
from Allahhana. There is no greater
truth to us other than what Allah
subhana wa ta'ala revealed other than
what Allahhana tala revealed. When that
truth comes we have a choice to make
either to follow it or to reject it. If
we follow it, it will be we will be
rewarded and we will increase in
guidance. If we reject it, we lead
towards misguidance till a person
becomes completely misguided and they
are from the disbelievers and they are
from the disbelievers and these are the
greatest of oppressors. Those people who
were given the gift and shown what Islam
is and what guidance is and they
rejected it and thus Allah subhana wa
ta'ala prepared this punishment for them
and we seek refuge in Allah subhana wa
ta'ala from that.
Now as is the amazing wisdom of Allah
subhana wa tala this concept
of exists in our dean meaning
encouraging to do good and in incitement
to remain or inciting fear to refrain
from sin. So now Allah subhanaa tala has
told us what happens to the evil people
but now what h what about all the good
people right all the good people that
may Allahh make us from amongst them and
we strive to be uh with them you know uh
it's attributed to im and subhan allah
he's a great im of this
um that I love the righteous people even
if I'm not from them
and he says that there is no day more
beloved to me than the day after the
prophetam came into Medina other than
the day that the prophetam said that a
man will be raised with those whom he
loves and I love Allah and I love his
messenger and I love Abu Bakr and I love
Omar and I hope to be raised with
Allahbar. So tying into the previous
ayat the importance of loving the
righteous people. So now Allahhana goes
on to
say indeed those people that believe and
do righteous deeds. So now when guidance
has come to you when truth has come to
you and you make the conscious decision
that I will pursue this truth what does
that look like? Faith and action cannot
be separated from one another. Eman in
the Arabic
language
encompasses action and necessitates
action when the opportunity arises. So
if you look at books of they will
mention that is statements, actions and
belief in the heart. This is what iman
encompasses. Statements, actions and
belief in the heart. And this is why you
see time and time again that eman and
sal are paired together because they are
one and the same. They are one in the
same and they cannot exist without one
another. There is no im without action
and there is no righteous action without
eman. There is no righteous action
without iman. So this goes back to that
question that people often ask. But what
happens to those righteous people from
amongst the non-believers? Well, this
verse answers it that there is no
righteousness without iman. So, a person
can do deeds that seem to be righteous,
but they're not truly righteous because
they're not accompanied by im. So, and
always come
together that indeed we will not allow
the reward of those that do good to go
in vain. meaning that Allah subhanahu wa
ta'ala will always compensate you
generously. You will never be
shortchanged. You know, sometimes you
have a job and you're paid like $20 an
hour, you're paid $15 an hour, $10 an
hour, whatever it may be. And sometimes
you work so hard yet you're paid the
exact same amount and you feel
shortchanged. Subhan Allah. Whereas with
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala, the more
effort you put in, the more reward you
are given. And Allahhana tala gives you
even more than that because Allah
subhanaa tala is more generous than we
can imagine. Is more generous than we
can imagine. So as long as we're doing
good and striving to do good, Allah
subhana wa ta'ala will continue to
reward us. Allahhana ta will continue to
reward us. Now what is the ultimate
reward? It is the mercy of Allah subhana
wa ta'ala. It is the mercy of Allah
subhana wa tala. What does that mean?
Mercy of Allahhana tala means that in
this life you live a life of being
content and satisfied and in the
hereafter you're entered into paradise.
In the hereafter you're entered into
paradise. You know I love sharing this
quote
from he
says that indeed in this life is a
paradise. who does not enter the life of
who does not he whoever does not enter
the paradise of this world will not
enter the paradise of the hereafter what
is that paradise it is the sweetness of
iman it is that life that you live for
the sake of Allah subhana wa t'ala and
those are the people that will live
spiritually content in this life and
physically content and satisfied in the
hereafter may Allah subhana wa ta'ala
make us from amongst them
integity. So Allahh goes on to say they
shall have gardens underneath which
rivers flow. So does a garden just exist
by itself in this context? No. You can
imagine it is your palace that has a
garden and your garden has a river
underneath which river flows. Subhan
Allah. In this life very few of us would
be able to afford something like this.
Yet Allah subhana wa ta gives it to all
of the believers that their houses will
be palaces. Their houses will be
palaces. multiple rooms, multiple
activities, the people that they love,
the people that they desire, they will
all be there. But the residency isn't
enough. Allah subhana wa ta surrounds
you with beauty as well. You know, the
fragrance of the ground of Jenna is from
musk. And Allah subhana wa ta'ala just
has this pleasant aroma wherever you go.
And the homes, they're not made of like
red bricks and cement and wood. They're
made of gold and silver and diamonds.
Allahbar.
So now getting back to the backyard that
Allah subhana wa ta'ala is telling us
about in this backyard of yours, this
garden of yours that will have the most
luscious of trees that give off the most
sweetest uh tasting of fruits. Subhan
Allah. That there will also be rivers
underneath which they flow. Everyone
loves to be around water, right? We
might not like to go in the water, but
we love to be around it. Subhan Allah.
It has this serenity and this
tranquility. Now what are these rivers?
These are rivers of water. These are
rivers of non- intoxicating alcohol.
These are rivers of milk, rivers of
honey. Whatever you want. Subhan Allah.
Whatever you want. And on that day, you
will be dressed with bangles and jewelry
from gold. So men in this dunya cannot
wear gold. Men in this dunya cannot wear
pure gold. We cannot wear bangles of
gold and you know watches of of pure
gold. But in the hereafter, this is what
Allah subhana wa ta'ala dresses us in
and uh you know gives us or beautifies
us with rather and the clothing that we
will have is clothing of green silk that
is thick. So you know how silk is so
soft. Subhan Allah. The prophetam in one
hadith he was brought perhaps the most
luxurious cloth available during during
his time and he says that the
handkerchief of Muad the handkerchief
of in the hereafter is even softer.
Subhan Allah. So there's nothing
comparing the silk of the hereafter to
the silk of this world. Just like
there's nothing comparing to the gold of
the hereafter to the gold of this world.
Just like there's nothing to compare the
water, the milk, the non- intoxicating
alcohol, the honey, all of that of the
hereafter to this of this
world. That they were given things that
the names are the same, but the reality
is so much more superior. So much more
superior. And these soft clothing is
what you will
have. And you will be laying back
relaxing. Now let us look go back. Let
us do a comparison and a contrast. And
in the previous verse, these people are
surrounded by the hellfire all around
them. It's causing them pain, causing
them chaos, causing them destruction.
They're seeking help from Allah subhana
wa ta'ala and from whoever may help
them. But as they're seeking help, their
punishment is only increasing. Why?
Because of the consequences of their
actions in the life of this world. But
now those people that embrace the truth
and do righteous deed, they are the ones
that will be rewarded so generously that
their compensation is so much greater
than the actions that they did. Subhan
Allah. So much greater than the actions
that they did. They have these massive
houses and palaces. They have this
garden. You have these rivers. You have
this luxurious jewelry. So rather than
being persecuted with you know uh chains
and and bangles of heat and and and and
uh molten lava, Subhan Allah, you're
given gold and you're giving the soft
clothing of silk and you're reclining.
You're in a state of pure bliss and
enjoyment. That's such an excellent
reward and an amazing resting place and
an amazing resting place. May Allah
subhanaa tala make us from the people of
Jenna and grant us genital for and make
us of those that are entered
without. So now the inside of the
clothes will be made from silk. If that
is the inside one can only imagine what
the outside will look like. Comfort and
relaxation is only for the not the such
an important point that all of these
things you know luxury and comfort are
meant to be for the hereafter. They're
meant to be for the hereafter. So be
comfortable with discomfort in this
life. Be comfortable with discomfort in
this life. Be comfortable with hardship
in this life. Be comfortable with
sacrifice in this life. May Allahh grant
us ti. A mean be comfortable with
sacrifice in this life so that you earn
the reward and the compensation from
Allah subhana wa tala in the hereafter.
And Allahhana tala is is much more
generous than we can imagine. Subhan
Allah. The word mortak is used here
again and this is for like the abode
that you will have and you know uh a
place where you will rest but the
previous one is not a resting place it's
used as a resting place because that's
where they will be but it's not actually
rest and over here it is an actual
resting place subhan allah jenna will be
a good friend and janna will be a bad
friend you know I love the these notes
that are put in subhan allah may Allahh
grant us the companionship of Jenna. May
Allah subhanaa tala grant us the
companionship of Jenna. And this is
where we begin the um story of uh of the
two gardens. This is where we begin the
story of the two gardens which we will
be pursuing next week. But I wanted to
go through some lessons with you from 27
to 31. So let us uh stop the screen
sharing.
Okay, there we go.
Alhamdulillah. So now key lessons. Key
lesson number one, reciting the Quran on
a consistent and regular basis and
trying one's best to follow its
guidance. This is a responsibility upon
each and every single Muslim. We should
try to establish and develop a real and
intimate relationship with the Quran. It
is essential for every single one of us
to nurture, develop, and build a
relationship with the Quran by reciting
it regularly, reflecting and pondering
over its meaning and implementing its
teachings. Number two, the divine
preservation and protection of the
Quran. Allah has taken the
responsibility of protecting and
preserving the Quran. It is divinely
protected. Now, here's a a beautiful
quote that I forgot to share with you.
during the time of
Alassi um you know someone was brought
forth and they said such and such
person that this person has memorized
the Quran or preserved the Quran
and he
says but rather it is the Quran that
preserves him rather it is the Quran
that preserves him subhan Allah so the
Quran will be your protector and it
protects you in so many ways subhan
Allah it'll spiritually protect you. It
is the source of your and your guidance.
It will protect you from evil and from
calamity and from doing sins and bad
deeds. But also in the hereafter, it
will be your shade. It will be uh your
witness and testimony and it will raise
your ranks in the hereafter. Subhan
Allah. So that is the the virtue of of
the Quran. Number three, keeping good
company. Whether we recognize it or not,
our environment has a very powerful
impact on our lives and affects our
mindset, attitude, speech and behavior.
The prophet sallall alaihi wasallam
tells us a person is upon the way of
their close friend. So be careful who
you choose as a friend. So strive to be
with the righteous. Number four, real
equality. Islam Islam establishes real
and true equality between all people.
Equality in Islam is not seen through
the lens of material qualities or
attributes of an individual to the
limits of the present world. Meaning
meaning that the rich and the poor are
equal in Islam. Politically right,
politically left are equal in Islam.
Educated, uneducated are equal in Islam.
Black, white, equal in Islam. Indian,
Pakistani, Arab, non-Arab, Bengali,
African,
Caucasian, Southeast Asian and
everything in between. All equal in
Islam. Your nobility comes from your
relationship with Allah subhana wa
ta'ala. Your nobility comes from your
relationship with Allahhana. This is the
theory of Islam. On a practical level,
we have a lot of work to do to making
sure that our massagid and our
organizations treat people equally and
with equity. Number five, Islam is the
absolute truth. Total and complete
submission to Allah both internally and
externally is the only truth. It is the
only path to achieve success in this
world and salvation in the hereafter.
Number six, punishment for disbelief.
Allah, if he so wills, will hold people
accountable in the life of the hereafter
for their sins and rejection of the
truth according to his infinite and
divine justice. And number seven, reward
for belief. Allah subhana wa ta'ala will
reward those who believe and do
righteous deeds through his infinite and
divine mercy and grace. May Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala make us from amongst
them. May Allah subhana wa tala make us
from amongst them. And next week, oh,
sorry, not next week. Remember, there's
no class next week, but in our next
session, we will pick up with the story
of the two gardens. Let me scroll up and
see what I've missed. And then we can
continue. Salams. Okay, a lot of people
saying
salamskumd for those that made dua and
for you as well. Uh, Hussein, wish we
met in Houston. I wish we did too.
Subhan Allah. Inshallah next time uh
test will be posted on February 13th.
Excellent. So that's good to remember.
Uh so remember that you guys have a test
on February 13th. A person person a poor
person who is also righteous or any poor
person. Both of them have virtue. Both
of them have virtue. The poor righteous
person is the company that you strive to
be in. That is what will grant you
victory and that is what will make your
duas answered. But the poor people are
also more likely to accept Islam. The
poor people are also more likely to
accept Islam. Right? because the
luxuries and comfort of this world
hasn't deluded them, hasn't uh deluded
them. So, seek both of them, but seek
the company of the righteous poor uh as
your long-term
companionship. Uh there's the dua. This
was shared by
Daniel. Thank you so much. Are the
wrongdoers akin to disbelievers only?
The ultimate wrongdoers are the
disbelievers. They are the ones whom the
truth came to them and rejected it. They
are the ones who uh the truth came to
them and rejected it and this is uh
major oppression and major disbelief and
then you have minor disbelief as well
and you have minor oppression as well.
So on uh a regular basis we know what
the right thing to do is but we don't do
it. May Allah protect us and guide us.
Right? So when we do that, this is a
form of oppression against the
soul that you are oppressive against
your soul. When you do these minor uh
transgressions and oppressions against
yourselves, could someone write down the
quote he just said if you remember it?
Um I don't remember which quote it
was. Right. That whoever does not enter
Jenna in this life, whatever does not
enter the paradise of this life will not
enter the paradise of the next. Uh, may
Allahh grant us and our loved ones
Jenna. Amen. Amen. Okay, that is the
quote.
[Music]
Um, why no class next week? I'm
traveling to Australia and because I
leave on Monday, I arrive on Wednesday.
You know, it's this amazing uh concept
of time that Allah has created. So, and
obviously I can't teach the class from
the plane. Um, the note on the face,
that's not this is the the shining
light. I have this light so that you're
able to see it. May Allah subhanaa tala
grant us. May Allah subhana wa tala
grant us from
his okay now let's do questions. So is
ayah 28 revealed in medina since uh ali
there is that opinion there is that
opinion but uh the surah from what we
know is a maki surah is a maki surah. So
there is a possibility that that ayah
was revealed in Medina or it was
revealed again in Medina or it was
revealed again in Medina. Those are the
options uh that we have uh as well or
the the ayah could be general as well
and this is from the
of from this is from his that this uh
verse applies uh to that scenario and I
believe Kath mentioned it as well. I
believe Kath mentioned it as well. So
Allah subhana wa ta'ala knows best. But
those are the different ways of
interpreting such incidents that there
are verses of the Quran that were
revealed twice. Like some of our
scholars are of the opinion that even
surah fat was revealed in Makkah and in
in Medina twice. Uh regarding I know you
had mentioned this once but can we read
half of it on Thursday after and the
other half before on Friday? Will it
lessen the rewards compared to reading
it one in one sitting? So you don't need
to read it in one sitting. You can read
it uh throughout uh your time but the
preferred time is before Juma. The
preferred time is before Jum meaning
before the establishment of salat jum.
So that is the maximum amount of reward
that you will get before reading it uh
before jum. However, if you read it
anytime after on Thursday to any time
before uh on Friday, you'll still get
rewarded from it. You'll still get
rewarded for for from it. What was the
dua that was mentioned from sunnah? was
uh shared above by Danielle if I'm not
mistaken. Uh you can find it in the chat
box within the one of my students asked
me when a person enters the fire and
their skin melts and burns will they
continuously get a new layer of skin so
that they continue to burn. This is what
we're we're taught in various hadith
that even in the adab of of the may
Allah subhanaa tala protect us but the
first time monk and the destroy the evil
and wicked souls uh skull it regenerates
and same thing in the hellfire it will
regenerate and that's where the the
punishment comes in may Allah subhana wa
ta'ala protect us can you explain what a
crisis of faith is that what leads a
person to disbelief so crisis of faith
means what leads a person to disbelief
and My point was that if we are not
establishing a daily reading of the
Quran, it is leading towards us. It it
is us leading towards a crisis of faith
and we're not even realizing it. May
Allah subhana wa ta'ala protect us and
um and allow us to nurture a
relationship with the Quran. Will our
next session be the week after next
week? Yes. The next live
session will be on February 20th from
Australia. from the Austral from
Australia. Last week uh you may
suggested Quran is a good source of is
the one by the correct one. Yes, that is
the
one. Nowadays we see many people at the
traffic signals holding signs homeless.
What are we supposed to do is giving
money
okay? Over here you have to understand
that two things are required. generosity
from you and this Allah subhana wa ta
will reward you for that whether the
person is deserving or not Allah subhana
wa ta'ala will reward you for your
generosity and when you are able to help
you should help but number two you
shouldn't enable so some people are not
necessarily poor and homeless per se but
they are addicts they are addicts and in
that sort of situation you want to try
to do your due diligence if you are able
to if you're not able to you're still
rewarded for your giving you're still
rewarded for your giving And we want to
have a more holistic approach to how we
help the homeless and the poor, right?
Teach a man, give a man a fish, you fed
him for a day. Teach a man how to fish,
you fed him for a lifetime. These people
need holistic care in terms of of
turning their lives around. And that is
why homeless shelters provide education,
food, um clothing, you know, a warm
shower, all this holistic care to
empower people to get uh into a better
situation. That's what we need to
approach it as well. Sheh, can we see
your little son? Uh, unfortunately, he's
not here with me, but inshallah, one of
the classes, I'll try to bring Abdullah
with me. He is
uh, a bundle of joy. He is a bundle of
joy. Um, Salam, what qualities do you
and your friends look for when it comes
to making righteous friends? Are there
certain qualities you can share which we
can teach our children? Because
unfortunately there are people who pray
and recite Quran but they're not
necessarily righteous. You know this is
a a topic for uh for a later time and a
conversation with them itself. But you
have to learn to see the good in
everyone that is doing good. Right? If
they're trying to pray, if they're
trying to read Quran, recognize that
good that they're trying to do, right?
And recognize that the potential that
they have, they just need motivation and
encouragement. And this is why where I
think and you know I don't have a hadith
specifically to to
to correspond with this but if you
strive to be a righteous person Allah
surrounds you with righteous people. If
you strive to be a good friend Allah
will grant you good companionship. If
you ask Allahhana for good companionship
he will grant it to you. Right? We see
this in the dua of Mus
Alisam. Um
after right after he says um you know
grant me Harun as my supporter right he
makes dua to Allah subhana wa ta'ala. We
see from the example of the prophet
sallallahu alaihi wasallam that he was
given the most righteous companion in
Abu Bakr Sadik because the prophet
himself was the epitome of
righteousness. Right? So strive to be
what you seek. That's the best answer
that I can give. Strive to be what you
seek. Teach your children to be what you
strive their friends uh to be. Right?
That is uh the best I can answer it.
Let's conclude with that. My dear
brothers and sisters, anything that I've
said is correct and all praise is due to
Allah subhana wa tala for that. Anything
that I've said is incorrect uh is from
myself and shaitan. May Allahh forgive
me and all of you. A mean Allah subhana
wa ta'ala make us of those that hear
something and implement the best of it
and whom the Quran is a proof for them
and not a proof against them and that
Allahhana grants us the to follow the
truth and implement it in our lives and
grants us the to abstain from falsehood
uh and that which leads to
disbelief and my dear brothers and
sisters till next time.